Kwartzlab Code of Conduct

1. Purpose

One of the primary goals of Kwartzlab is the inclusion and support of all members of the greater Waterloo Region community who
are interested in all manner of making, hacking, and DIY culture. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe, 
and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender indentification & expression, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, 
socio-economic status, age, religion or lack thereof.

We invite all those who participate in our events and who communicate with our organization at large to help us create a safe 
and positive experience for everyone involved.

We have outlined a code of conduct to highlight our expectations for all individuals who participate in our space, as well as 
the steps to adress unacceptable behaviour.

2. Kwartzlab Culture & Maker Citizenship

A supplemental goal of this Code of Conduct is to increase maker culture & citzenship by encouraging participants to recognize 
and strengthen the relationships between our actions and their effects on our community. Communities mirror the societies in 
which they exist and positive action is essential to counteract the many forms of inequality and abuses of power that exist in 
society.

If you see someone who is making an extra effort to ensure our community is welcoming, friendly, and encourages all participants 
to contribute to the fullest extent, please recognize their efforts.

3. Expected Behaviour

The following is expected of all members and guests in Kwartzlab space, or representing Kwartzlab at third party and community 
events:

  * Participate in an authentic and active way which helps further our raison d’etre [http://www.kwartzlab.ca/corporation/]. 
  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions. Attempt to engage in collaboration rather than conflict when 
    dealing with others. 
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants, and be careful with both lab and other peoples' property. 
    Many of the tools and projects in our space are easily damaged through mishandling. Mindfulness includes:
    
    - follow posted notices regarding tool and resource use;
    
    - clean up your workspace and stow away any projects or materials when not in use;
    
    - don't interfere with another member's project or use of the space;
    
    - communicate with other members and achieve a consensus before engaging in any activity which will diminish other members' 
    safe use of the space. Examples of such activities include: working on projects which involve sexual or violent imagery; 
    working with noxious materials which reduce air quality in the space; working on or storing large projects which unreasonably 
    reduce the usable space in Kwartzlab.
    
A Note on Projects with Mature Themes

Kwartzlab does not censor or restrict the sorts of projects members may work on in the lab, as long as they are legal under 
Canadian law. In order to ensure the space remains safe and welcoming for all members, we expect any member who is working on 
a project which involves explicitly sexual or violent imagery to take appropriate steps ensuring that other members and guests 
aren't unwittingly exposed to such imagery. 
    
4. Unacceptable Behaviour

The following behaviours are considered to be detrimental to Kwartzlab's goal of being a safe, inclusive, and productive space:

  * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another person.
  
  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory jokes and language.
  
  * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
  
  * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, or ability.
  
  * Inappropriate physical contact. You must have someone’s consent before touching them.
  
  * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes sexualized comments or jokes, inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed 
    sexual advances.
  
  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
  
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
  
  * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations, or another member's normal use of Kwartzlab 
    space or resources. 

5. Experiencing Unacceptable Behaviour

Open and cooperative communication is a key virtue within the Kwartzlab community. If you experience or witness somebody failing to meet expected behaviour in a notable way, chances are it was an oversight. If you feel safe and comfortable doing so, consider addressing it with the individual directly or on the members' mailing list -- they may just need a gentle reminder.

If, for any reason, you are not able to do so, please notify a Director as soon as possible. If a Director is not on the premises, one can be reached by emailing bod@kwartzlab.ca. A contact list can also be found near the board locker in the front room. If you are attending an in-person event at Kwartzlab when you experience unacceptable behaviour, you can also talk to the event organizer.

That stills leaves it open for members to deal with things internally, but provides an easy path of escalation to the board.

6. Consequences of Unacceptable Behaviour

Unacceptable behaviour from anybody in the Kwartzlab space will not be tolerated. Anyone asked to stop engaging in unacceptable behaviour is expected to comply immediately.

Anyone who does not immediately cease unacceptable behaviour, once asked, may be removed from the space immediately. If the offender is a member, access to the lab may be withheld until the matter is resolved.

When unacceptable behaviour is escalated to the board, a more formal disciplinary action may be sought pursuant to our bylaws, including suspension or termination of membership. Non-member guests may be banned from the premises and future Kwartzlab events.

7. Board Responsibilities

The Board's obligation, first and foremost, is to the safety and security of Kwartzlab and its membership. When a Code of Conduct issue is reported  to the board of directors, it must be resolved.

In order to effect a resolution, the Board will need to investigate, which may include collecting statements from everyone involved, consulting with Wardens regarding any safety issues, and determining what the affected parties consider a resolution. The Board's goal  in this process is not to act as a mediator for member issues - though it may choose to do so - but to enact the policies outlined in the Code of Conduct.

While some incidents may only require an apology or an agreed upon restitution (e.g. replacement parts for a broken project), repeated or egregious issues may result in suspension or termination

8. Addressing Grievances

If a membership is terminated as the result of a Code of Conduct complaint, the terminated member may appeal the decision 
pursuant to the Corporation's bylaws.

9. Confidentiality

Kwartzlab recognizes that all guests and members have a right to privacy, and will handle complaints confidentially. 

Information that will be kept in Corporate records and available to Directors in the future will include: the date the complaint 
was made, the name of the subject of the complaint, a summary description of the complaint, the name of the handling Director(s) 
or Officer(s), the response or decision made on the complaint, the date the response or decision on the complaint was made. 

Both the individual who placed the complaint and the subject of the complaint will be notified of any outcome(s), decision(s), or 
response(s).

10. Scope

We expect all Kwartzlab participants (members, event organizers sponsors, and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in 
all community venues (online and in-person) as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to Kwartzlab business. 

11. Additional Information

Additionally, the Board of Directors is available to help Kwartzlab members engage with local law enforcement or to otherwise 
help those experiencing unacceptable behaviour to feel safe. 

Changes to the Code of Conduct are governed by the Corporaton's Bylaws.

12. License Information and Attribution

This Code of Conduct is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License, derived from the University of 
Waterloo's Computer Science Club's Code of Conduct [http://csclub.uwaterloo.ca/about/constitution], and the Open Source 
Bridge's Code of Conduct [http://opensourcebridge.org/about/code-of-conduct/].
